# 
Valorant is my personal favorite videogame. This game is an FPS search and destroy game made by RIOT Games. It is a first person, five versus five, search and destroy game where every character you can choose to play has a different set of abilities and utility to take the game into your own hands. The game revolves around each team trying to either plant a bomb-like device called “The Spike” down and destroy a mysterious material that has been used to give people powers, give life to creatures, and invent insane technology. This game stands out for two main reasons. First of all, the gameplay. Simply put, the gameplay is addictive in my opinion and it has a lot of aspects I look for in a game. I get emotionally invested and put my heart into every match which makes me feel like the game has a lasting effect, and it raises the stakes mentally. Another feature about the gameplay that I enjoy is the fact that it has open microphones to talk to your team. The randomized queues can be really fun and making small talk or screaming at gun fire makes you feel exhilarated. Past the gameplay, I really enjoy the storyline that the game follows. There is a lore that follows the game and all of the characters which is just a great sci-fi story. The story includes aspects of mystical genetic powers and multiversal travels and experiments. Also, there are doppelgangers and cute creatures which just adds depth to the story. To follow the story, RIOT Games also makes cinematic videos which are masterpieces of art. They are very visually appealing and give you a chance to get to know the game and fall in love with the story and characters. To break down every aspect of the game would take a while as it’s a major, AAA studio game that has been worked on for years now. The major aspects include the characters (models, animations, voicelines), the map design, the sound effects, appealing visual effects, and others. The characters are all designed in a consistent style but are all very different in nature. Some of them have super powers/abilities, some of them have enhanced/enhancing technology, and some of them aren’t even humans. They still all tie in well together and make for a cool, cohesive style. Similar to the characters, the maps are all kept in the same aesthetic while having different paths, textures, layouts, easter eggs, and even function. Some maps have doors that rotate open, some have walls that you can shoot to break, and some maps have teleporting portals to rotate quickly. All these features, on a map rotation/randomization pattern, make for a fun gameplay that doesn’t get boring or ever feel dry. The abilities of each agent may just be the biggest and most important aspect of the game. Not only are superpowers in FPS games a pretty unique idea, but each character has a different load out. These abilities mix precise tactics with intense chaos, which builds onto the fun maps and teams. Because Valorant is a big game from a AAA game studio, it’s hard to put one name or face to each major aspect of the game. Also, the development team is changing quite frequently, according to the media they’ve put out since I started following the game. However, I can shed light on some of the recent updates and jobs. The latest character to be added, Vyse, was made by concept artists and 3D artists. The character started with the 2D design which was notably contributed to by Konstantin Maystrenko. The design was then handed off to be 3D modeled by Rosa Lee. Both artists agreed that this character was supposed to have a unique silhouette design, so Vyse would be recognizable from far away, which contributes to her threatening personality while “playing back” and relying on her utility to carry gameplay. Both 2D and 3D art skills are required for a character design. Maya is the main software that RIOT Games tends to use for 3D modeling, so it’s my best guess that an expertise in Maya is required to make characters like Vyse. Because the silhouette was thought out and there was a conscious idea behind the design, the artists must have a good sense of lighting and how their maps would interact with the character. I suppose having a good understanding of color theory plays into this and is important for successfully doing this job. The game’s maps follow a very similar process, where it starts with 2D designs and layouts before it is translated into a 3D, game ready model. Because the maps are designed very strategically, developers need to know how to make a balanced/fair map, regardless of what side you spawn in (which depends on if you are planting “The Spike” or defending the mysterious material). For these developers to make a successful map, they need to understand how to make a map that guides the players’ eyes to make for smooth gameplay without making a map that is too hard to see in. If I could pick a role to contribute to this game, I think I’d want to work on visual effects (VFX). The game is made in Unreal Engine 4 (as of right now), and I’d like to get into the process of making visual effects. You would definitely need to understand the colors of your effects and how those colors would interact with the maps, characters, lighting, and other VFX. Personally, I think working in VFX would be really fun and creative. There is a lot to do and VFX is really important to maps, character abilities, guns/bullets, etc.. This role is appealing because of how impactful good VFX would be to a game like Valorant. Currently, I definitely do not have enough, or even any, VFX skills to work at RIOT Games on Valorant. However, before I graduate I would need to learn how to use graphic design tools like Adobe Photoshop and game engines like Unreal Engine in order to succeed at this job. I do think I have a good sense of color theory and a good grasp on the style that Valorant requires, but I would need to learn how to apply these skills further. This coding course was very challenging to me truthfully. I did not come into the class knowing anything about Python, besides it being a scary snake, (now I know Python is even scarier than a snake)! Truthfully, I did take away a lot from the class still. I learned all about how games are made and the technical processes that lead up to the creative aspect of making a game. This class made finding a job in this field more optimistic in my opinion, because I learned how manageable this work is